feat: add notes for noatime flag in data node operator guide (#877)
vegaprotocol/documentation: docs/node-operators/requirements/data-node-infrastructure.md

vega_network: TESTNET
hide_title: false
---

import NetworkParameter from '@site/src/components/NetworkParameter';

> import Topic from '/docs/topics/\_topic-data-nodes.mdx';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import Topic from '/docs/topics/_topic-data-nodes.mdx';
```

| Core + Datanode ZFS  | 993            | 25%          | 729            | 65%          |

### Cores performance testing

Benchmark testing shows that ZFS with zstd helps reduce the amount of data stored on the drives, but has a negative impact on the amount of CPU resources required. This is due to the compression/decompression of the data as it is written and read from disk.

Below are results of replay tests showing how different amounts of available CPU cores change the average block processing rate. More blocks per minute (bpm) is better.

| Cores | EXT4 (bpm) | ZFS + zstd (bpm) |
| ----- | ---------- | ---------------- |
| 1     | 496        | 326              |
| 2     | 853        | 604              |
| 3     | 1003       | 751              |
| 4     | 1439       | 856              |
| 5     | 1471       | 1014             |
| 6     | 1466       | 1164             |
| 7     |            | 1172             |

## Software requirements

### Operating system

For production use, we recommend using the Linux binary on Ubuntu as this is the platform used by nodes on Fairground, the Vega testnet, and is the most widely tested so far.

> We also recommend ensure that the `noatime` flag is set for mounted drives as this can cause performance issues and deadlocking in the database leading to panics in Postgres and the data node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also recommend ensuring that the `noatime` flag is set for mounted drives, as not having it set can cause performance issues and deadlocking in the database, leading to panics in Postgres and the data node.
```
